#Linux kernel articles
##Send patch to Linux

You made a patch to add a new feature or to solve an issue ? Nice ! But it'd be better to send it to the Linux foundation now ! I'll explain you how in this chapter.

###Setup

First, we need to add the missing tools:

```Shell
> apt-get update
> apt-get install git git-email gitk
```

Then you'll need to configure your git if you haven't done it yet:

```Shell
git config --add user.name "Guillaume Gomez"
git config --add user.email "guillaume1.gomez@gmail.com"
```

Once this done, we need to add the configuration for git-email. Add the following lines to your `~/.gitconfig` file:

```Text
[sendemail]
	smtpencryption = tls
	stmpserver = smtp.gmail.com
	smtpuser = guillaume1.gomez@gmail.com
	smtpserverport = 587
	from = Guillaume Gomez <guillaume1.gomez@gmail.com>
	suppresscc = self
```

Of course, change the information to make them match your own configuration. Please note that some smtp servers might not accept very well git-email so you'll need to do some additional change. For example, on gmail, I had to go to my account and set "Authorize less secured applications" parameter to true.

Once you have done this, we can continue !

###Commit messages

The commit messages have to be very explicit to make the work of linux developers easier. For example, if you worked on tty and solved an issue, your commit message should look like:

```Text
tty: solved [description of issue]
```

###Creating the patch file

Once you have commited your changes, you'll need to create the patch file to send. It's very easy to do:

```Shell
> git format-patch -s -n master..fix_branch
```

Where `fix_branch` is the branch where you made the changes (never modify master directly!). You should now have a file called `000x-something.patch`.

###Checking patch

Before sending the patch, it would be nice to check if there is any error in it, right? A script does it for you:

```Shell
> scripts/checkpatch.pl 000x-something.patch
```

The output should look like this:

```Text
total: 0 errors, 0 warnings, 14 lines checked
000x-something.patch has no obvious style problems and is ready for submission.
```

If you have warnings, it's \*generally\* OK, but please check if there is nothing serious before going forward.

###Know whom you should send the patch to

You can't just send your patch to anyone! Once again, a script is provided to get the concerned people list:

```Shell
> scripts/get_maintainer.pl 000x-something.patch
```

And so you should get something like this:

```Text
Greg Kroah-Hartman <gregkh@linuxfoundation.org> (supporter:TTY LAYER)
Jiri Slaby <jslaby@suse.com> (supporter:TTY LAYER)
linux-kernel@vger.kernel.org (open list)
```

###Sending email

Before going any further, please test your patch!

Done?

Good! Before sending the mail, it would be nice to test if everything is working fine, right? Let's send an email to ourselves!

```Shell
> git send-email --to "you@you.com" 000x-something.patch
```

If you have some issue with Perl, please install the missing libraries/packages through a Perl package manager.

If you received the mail, congrats! It means you're now ready to send it to the Linux foundation:

```Shell
> git send-email --cc "you@you.com" --cc "linux-kernel@vger.kernel.org" --to "gregkh@linuxfoundation.org" --to "jslaby@suse.com" 000x-something.patch
```

Once this done, you can follow your patch status on mailing list. There are a few websites where you can see them. I usually go on [marc.info](http://marc.info/), but there is also [Linux Kernel Mailing Lists](https://lkml.org/) and others... I'll let you check. Hope it helped!
